jme3/features.html:1090:<p><a href="#physics/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Bullet physics binding</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1174:<a href="#jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Effects Overview</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1208:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_ogre_export.adoc" class="page unresolved">Exporting Models as Ogre XML meshes from Blender</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1211:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_ogre_compatibility.adoc" class="page unresolved">Ogre Compatibility</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1324:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_gltf.adoc" class="page unresolved">Exporting Models as GlTF meshes from Blender</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1455:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/jme3_shadernodes.adoc" class="page unresolved">Shader Nodes</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1599:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particles: Smoke, fire, explosions, etc</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1602:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Post processing / 2D Filter Effects</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1645:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">Geomipmapped hightmap terrain</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1648:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_ogre_compatibility.adoc" class="page unresolved">Ogre Compatibility</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1651:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/sky.adoc" class="page unresolved">SkyBox and SkyDome</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1666:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/hud.adoc" class="page unresolved">Orthogonal (Billboard) node</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1669:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI integration</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1681:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> and <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Controls</a> to implement <a href="#jme3/advanced/update_loop.adoc" class="page unresolved">game logic</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1684:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics and motion paths</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1687:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/camera.adoc" class="page unresolved">Camera System</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1710:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/combo_moves.adoc" class="page unresolved">Combo moves</a></p>
jme3/features.html:1725:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/networking.adoc" class="page unresolved">SpiderMonkey API</a></p>
documentation.html:1169:<p><a href="#jme3.adoc#documentation-for-intermediate-users" class="page unresolved">jME3 intermediate articles</a></p>
documentation.html:1175:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Blender Modeling Guide</a></p>
documentation.html:1180:<p><a href="#jme3.adoc#documentation-for-advanced-users" class="page unresolved">jME3 advanced documentation</a></p>
documentation.html:1200:<p>Get inspired by existing <a href="#jme3/contributions.adoc" class="page unresolved">contributions</a></p>
physics/joint/hinges_and_joints.html:1012:<p>Create a SimpleApplication with a <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">BulletAppState</a></p>
physics/joint/hinges_and_joints.html:1125:<p>You&#8217;ll understand that, when creating any type of joint, it is important to correctly specify the DOFs that the joint restricts, and the DOFs that the joint allows. For the typical DOF of a <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/ragdoll.adoc" class="page unresolved">ragDoll</a> character&#8217;s limbs, jME even offers a special joint, <code>ConeJoint</code>.</p>
physics/control/vehicles.html:1026:<p>Create a SimpleApplication with a <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">BulletAppState</a></p>
physics/control/vehicles.html:1273:<p>Not shown here is the standard way how we map the input keys to actions (see full code sample). Also refer to <a href="#jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">Input Handling</a>).</p>
physics/control/vehicles.html:1355:<p>Read the <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc#responding_to_a_physicscollisionevent" class="page unresolved">Responding to a PhysicsCollisionEvent</a> chapter in the general physics documentation on how to detect collisions. You would do this if you want to react to collisions with custom events, such as adding points or substracting health.</p>
physics/control/vehicles.html:1363:<p>This example shows a very simple but functional vehicle. For a game you would implement steering behaviour and acceleration with values that are typical for the type of vehicle that you want to simulate. Instead of a box, you load a chassis model. You can consider using an <a href="#jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">AnalogListener</a> to respond to key events in a more sophisticated way.</p>
physics/control/ragdoll.html:984:<p>The jMonkeyEngine3 has built-in support for <a href="http://jbullet.advel.cz">jBullet physics</a> via the <code>com.jme3.bullet</code> package. Physics are not only responsible for handing collisions, but they also make <a href="#jme3/advanced/hinges_and_joints.adoc" class="page unresolved">hinges and joints</a> possible. One special example of physical joints are ragdoll physics, shown here.</p>
physics/control/ragdoll.html:1011:<p>Create a SimpleApplication with a <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">BulletAppState</a></p>
physics/control/ragdoll.html:1186:<p>We can use the action to pick the doll up and put it back on its feet, or what ever. Read more about <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc#forcesmoving_physical_objects" class="page unresolved">Forces</a> here.</p>
physics/control/ragdoll.html:1194:<p>Read the <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc#responding_to_a_physicscollisionevent" class="page unresolved">Responding to a PhysicsCollisionEvent</a> chapter in the general physics documentation on how to detect collisions. You can detect collisions between limbs or between limbs and the floor, and trigger game events.</p>
physics/control/walking_character.html:1205:<p>The BulletPhysics CharacterControl only collides with &#8220;real&#8221; PhysicsControls (RigidBody). It does not detect collisions with other CharacterControls! If you need additional collision checks, add GhostControls to your characters and create a custom <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics_listeners.adoc" class="page unresolved">collision listener</a> to respond.</p>
physics/control/walking_character.html:1318:<p>(Unless you already have it) Activate physics in the scene by adding a <a href="#jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">BulletAppState</a>.</p>
physics/control/softbody.html:1096:More informations on creating <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/custom_meshes.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom meshes</a>.</p>
physics/physics.html:989:<p>If you are looking for info on how to respond to physics events such as collisions, read about <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics_listeners.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physics Listeners</a>.</p>
physics/physics.html:1291:<p>A built-in compound shape of a vertical cylinder with one sphere at the top and one sphere at the bottom. Typically used with <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/walking_character.adoc" class="page unresolved">CharacterControls</a>: A cylinder-shaped body does not get stuck at corners and vertical obstacles; the rounded top and bottom do not get stuck on stair steps and ground obstacles.</p>
physics/physics.html:1571:<p>Use for collision and intersection detection between physical objects. A GhostControl itself is <em>non-solid</em> and invisible. GhostControl moves with the Spatial it is attached to. Use GhostControls to <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics_listeners.adoc" class="page unresolved">implement custom game interactions</a> by adding it to a visible Geometry.</p>
physics/physics.html:1599:<p>Special Control used for <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/vehicles.adoc" class="page unresolved">&quot;terrestrial&quot;  vehicles with suspension and wheels</a>.</p>
physics/physics.html:1610:<p>Special Control used for <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/walking_character.adoc" class="page unresolved">Walking Character</a>s.</p>
physics/physics.html:1621:<p>Special Control used for <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/walking_character.adoc" class="page unresolved">Walking Character</a>s.</p>
physics/physics.html:1632:<p>Special Control used for <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/ragdoll.adoc" class="page unresolved">collapsing, flailing, or falling characters</a></p>
physics/physics.html:2166:<p>You can hang kinematics up “in mid-air and attach other PhysicsControls to them using <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/hinges_and_joints.adoc" class="page unresolved">hinges and joints</a>. Picture them as “air hooks for flying aircraft carriers, floating islands in the clouds, suspension bridges, swings, chains…</p>
physics/physics.html:2181:<p>The position of a kinematic RigidBodyControl is updated automatically depending on its spatial&#8217;s translation. You move Spatials with a kinematic RigidBodyControl programmatically, that means you write translation and rotation code in the update loop. You describe the motion of kinematic objects either by using methods such as <code>setLocalTranslation()</code> or <code>move()</code>, or by using a <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/motionpath.adoc" class="page unresolved">MotionPath</a>.</p>
physics/physics.html:2413:<strong>Solution:</strong> To specify how the game responds to collisions, you use <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics_listeners.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physics Listeners</a>.</p>
physics/collision/physics_listeners.html:1013:<p>You can leave the GhostControl non-solid and invisible and attach it to an (invisible) Node in the scene to create something like a motion detector. But a GhostControl also works fine when added to spatials that are solid (with RigidBodyControl) and visible (with Geometry). One use case for GhostControls is to check for collisions among <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/walking_character.adoc" class="page unresolved">CharacterControls</a> when the characters are walking.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/3dsmax/3dsmax.html:1423:<p>Because you have a smooth model with a lot of polygons, it may be useful to create <a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">levels of detail (LOD)</a>. When the camera is farther away, a low-poly mesh of your character will be rendered.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/makehuman_blender_ogrexml_toolchain.html:1020:<p>OgreXML exporter for Blender: <a href="#../../jme3/external/blender/blender_ogre_compatibility.adoc" class="page unresolved">Working Blender and OgreXML Versions</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1040:<p><input type="checkbox" data-item-complete="0"> You have <a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_buffer_clearing.adoc" class="page unresolved">cleared your buffers</a>. It isn&#8217;t required by Mixamo, just makes your models cleaner for jme.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1061:<p>See <a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating assets in Blender3D</a> for help on creating jME3 compatible models.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1696:<p>Follow the directions for <a href="#jme3/advanced/mixamo.adoc#mixamo-animations.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mixamo Animations</a>, <a href="#jme3/advanced/mixamo.adoc#mixamo-download.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mixamo Download</a>, <a href="#jme3/advanced/mixamo.adoc#creating-blender-animations.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating Blender Animations</a>, <a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc#action-baking" class="page unresolved">Blender Action Baking</a> and xref:jme3/external/blender/blender_buffer_clearing#the-linked-action-buffer,Clearing The Linked Action Buffer] for all animations you wish to append to your <strong>rigged</strong> animation file.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1734:<p>From the <code>Info</code> header, change the layout from <code>Animation</code> to the <code>NLA Editing</code> layout we created in the <a href="#jme3/advanced/mixamo.adoc#creating-the-rigged-animation-file.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating The Rigged Animation File</a> section of this tutorial. You will see your append <code>Action</code> at the top of the list.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1816:<p>Some export methods bake your actions automatically on export, others don&#8217;t. Test the animation in-game and if your animations are all messed up, try <a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc#action-baking" class="page unresolved">baking them</a> or use a different exporter.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1838:<p>You can see a similar video demonstration of this entire process in <a href="#jme3.adoc#animations-and-scenes.adoc" class="page unresolved">Animations And Scenes</a> under the CadNav <span class="icon"><i class="fa fa-long-arrow-right"></i></span>  Mixamo <span class="icon"><i class="fa fa-long-arrow-right"></i></span> JME Workflow heading.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/mixamo.html:1841:<p>See <a href="../../../beginner/hello_animation.html" class="page">Hello Animation</a> and <a href="#jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">Animation in JME3</a> to learn how to use your animated model.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_ogre_compatibility.html:995:<p>As of Blender version 2.8+, OgreXML is no longer compatible for exporting. See <a href="#jme3/features.adoc#supported-external-file-types" class="page unresolved">Supported External File Types</a> for other options.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender.html:1327:<p>There are many 3D model <a href="#jme3/features.adoc#supported-external-file-types.adoc" class="page unresolved">Supported External File Types</a> for jMonkeyEngine. Some of them bake your actions automatically on export, others don&#8217;t. Baking is a destructive process so it is recommended that you test the animation in-game first. If your animations are all messed up, try baking them or use a different exporter.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender.html:1412:<p>Clear the old action from the <code>Linked Action</code> buffer. See <a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_buffer_clearing.adoc" class="page unresolved">Blender Buffer Clearing</a> for more information.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender.html:2090:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/sky.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to add a Sky to your Scene</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_gltf.html:1022:<p>Details of how to create models in Blender that are compatible with jME are given at <a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating assets in Blender3D</a>. Follow all details on that page for creating models before attempting an export.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_gltf.html:1038:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_buffer_clearing.adoc" class="page unresolved">Blender Buffer Clearing</a> should be performed prior to exporting any model from Blender.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_gltf.html:1251:<p>See <a href="#jme3/advanced/traverse_scenegraph.adoc" class="page unresolved">Traverse the SceneGraph</a> for assistance in finding the AnimControl of your models.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_gltf.html:1254:<p>See <a href="#jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">Animation in jME3</a> for further details on using animations in your code.</p>
tutorials/how-to/modeling/blender/blender_ogre_export.html:990:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender/blender_buffer_clearing.adoc" class="page unresolved">Blender Buffer Clearing</a> should be performed prior to exporting any model from Blender.</p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part3.html:993:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part1.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part one</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part3.html:1001:<p>In <a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part2.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part Two</a>, I talked about the basics of PBR for developers, and explained the different steps of the lighting process with PBR.</p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part3.html:1312:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part1.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part one</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part3.html:1315:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part2.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part Two</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part1.html:1236:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part2.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part Two</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part1.html:1239:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part3.adoc#image-based-lighting-in-pbr#" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part Three</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part2.html:985:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part1.adoc" class="page unresolved">In Part one</a>, I explained what you had to know about Physically Based Rendering if you were an artist. If you’re a developer, and reading this article, you may have tried, or are planning  to implement your own PBR system. If you started to read some of the available literature, you’ve probably been struck by the math complexity of it, and by the lack of explanation of the big picture. You usually see articles that focus on specifics parts of the process, and don’t talk much about other parts as they are assumed easier. At some point you have to assemble all these parts, and I had a hard time figuring out how to do it in my readings. I guess it’s considered basic stuff for other authors, but I think it deserves its proper explanation.</p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part2.html:1242:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part1.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part one</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/articles/pbr/pbr_part2.html:1245:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/pbr_part3.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physically Based Rendering – Part Three</a></p>
tutorials/how-to/debugging.html:1330:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a> – if you can&#8217;t see certain spatials, you can modify the culling behaviour to identify problems (such as inside-out custom meshes)</p>
tutorials/concepts/math.html:983:<p>It&#8217;s a fact of life, math is hard. Unfortunately, 3D graphics require a fair bit of knowledge about the subject. Fortunately, jME is able to hide the majority of the details away from the user. Vectors are the fundamental type in the 3D environment, and it is used extensively. Matrices are also a basic necessity of 3D for representing linear systems. <a href="#ROOT:jme3/quaternion.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quaternions</a> are perhaps the most powerful and complicated of the basic types and are used for rotation in jME.</p>
tutorials/concepts/math.html:1536:<p>You might wish to represent your rotations as Angle Axis pairs. That is, you define a axis of rotation and the angle with which to <a href="rotate.html" class="page">rotate</a> about this axis. <a href="#ROOT:jme3/quaternion.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quaternions</a> defines a method <code>fromAngleAxis</code> (and <code>fromAngleNormalAxis</code>) to create a Quaternion from this pair. This is acutally used quite a bit in jME demos to continually rotate objects. You can also obtain a Angle Axis rotation from an existing Quaternion using <code>toAngleAxis</code>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/math.html:1855:<p>The most common usage of Plane is <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/camera.adoc" class="page unresolved">Camera</a> frustum planes. Therefore, the primary purpose of Plane is to determine if a point is on the positive side, negative side, or intersecting a plane.</p>
tutorials/concepts/math.html:2007:<p>Rectangle is a straight forward data class that simply maintains values that defines a Rectangle in 3D space. One interesting use is the <code>random</code> method that will create a random point on the Rectangle. The <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particle System</a> makes use of this to define an area that generates <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particles</a>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/math.html:2039:<p>jME&#8217;s Triangle class is a simple data class. It contains three <a href="#intermediate/terminology.adoc#vectors" class="page unresolved">Vector3f</a> objects that represent the three points of the triangle. These can be retrieved via the <code>get</code> method. The <code>get</code> method, obtains the point based on the index provided. Similarly, the values can be set via the <code>set</code> method.</p>
tutorials/concepts/terminology.html:1383:<p>See also: <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/water.adoc" class="page unresolved">Water</a>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/terminology.html:1429:<p>This has been a brief introduction to PBR. In reality, it requires a significant amount of learning to implement correctly. Read the three part series of articles called, Physically Based Rendering, that can be found under the <a href="#ROOT:jme3.adoc#materials-light-shadow" class="page unresolved">Materials, light, Shadow</a> topic for a more in depth explanation of PBR textures. This is a must read for any serious jME developer.</p>
tutorials/concepts/rotate.html:987:<p><strong>3D rotation</strong> is a crazy mathematical operation where you need to multiply all vertices in your object by four floating point numbers; the multiplication is referred to as concatenation, the array of four numbers {x,y,z,w} is referred to as <a href="#ROOT:jme3/quaternion.adoc" class="page unresolved">quaternion</a>. Don&#8217;t worry, the 3D engine does the tough work for you. All you need to know is:</p>
tutorials/concepts/rotate.html:1335:<p>In case you missed it, see also <a href="#ROOT:jme3/quaternion.adoc" class="page unresolved">quaternion</a>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1283:<p>Every jME3 game is centered around one main class that (directly or indirectly) extends com.jme3.app.<a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleApplication</a>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1403:<p>Use <code><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">setUserData()</a></code> to add custom attributes to Spatials.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1406:<p>Use <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Controls</a> and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> to define custom behaviour systems.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1440:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleApplication</a> gives you access to game features such as a the rootNode, assetManager, guiNode, inputManager, audioManager, physicsSpace, viewPort, and the camera. But what if you need this access also from another class? Don&#8217;t extend SimpleApplication a second time, and don&#8217;t pass around tons of object references in constructors! Needing access to application level objects is a sign that this class should be designed as an <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppState</a> (read details there).</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1461:<p>Use <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a> to implement <em>global game mechanics</em>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1483:<p>Use <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Controls</a> to implement the <em>behaviour of game entities</em>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1538:<p>Read all about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> here.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1549:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/multithreading.adoc" class="page unresolved">Multithreading</a> – Use concurrency for long-running background tasks, but don&#8217;t manipulate the scene graph from outside the main thread (update loop)!</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1607:<p><strong>Use the <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/logging.adoc" class="page unresolved">Logger</a></strong> to print status messages during the development and debugging phase, instead of System.out.println(). The logger can be switched off with one line of code, whereas commenting out all your `println()`s takes a while.</p>
tutorials/concepts/best_practices.html:1640:<p>Switch off fine <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/logging.adoc" class="page unresolved">logging</a> output.</p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1014:<p>Yes! Actually, you MUST customize it! For your own games, you always create a custom base class that extends <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/jmonkeyengine/blob/master/jme3-core/src/main/java/com/jme3/app/SimpleApplication.java">com.jme3.app.SimpleApplication</a> class. From now on it&#8217;s no longer a <code>simple application</code> – it&#8217;s now your game. Configure your <a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">application settings</a>, implement methods, and customize away!</p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1022:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleApplication</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1025:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1041:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1057:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1086:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/logging.adoc" class="page unresolved">Logging</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1168:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1221:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/3d_models.adoc" class="page unresolved">3D Models</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1227:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating assets in Blender3D</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1334:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1345:<p>Change the geometry&#8217;s translation (position) live in the update loop using setLocalTranslation() for non-physical and applyForce() or setWalkDirection() for physical objects. You can also define and remote-control a spatial&#8217;s motion using <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a>, e.g. to record cutscenes, or to implement mobile platforms, elevators, airships, etc.</p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1356:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/update_loop.adoc" class="page unresolved">Update Loop</a>&gt;</p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1359:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1362:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1393:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1409:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_meshes.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Meshes</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1471:<p><a href="#concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How To Use Materials</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1506:<p><a href="#concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How To Use Materials</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1546:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Light and Shadow</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1580:<p><a href="#concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How To Use Materials</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1609:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1630:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/debugging.adoc" class="page unresolved">Debugging</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1747:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/update_loop.adoc" class="page unresolved">Update Loop</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1750:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1753:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1756:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1775:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">Input Handling</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1794:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/mouse_picking.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Picking</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1797:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/collision_and_intersection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Collision and Intersection</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1800:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">Input Handling</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1841:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">Animation</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1873:<p><a href="#physics/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physics</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:1898:<p><a href="#physics/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physics</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2047:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/hud.adoc" class="page unresolved">HUD</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2082:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2108:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/loading_screen.adoc" class="page unresolved">Loading screen</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2138:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc#useful_links" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI 1.3 Java docs</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2160:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">Audio</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2189:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particle Emitters</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2192:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/bloom_and_glow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Bloom and Glow</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2195:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Effects Overview</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2233:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/water.adoc" class="page unresolved">Water</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2236:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/post-processor_water.adoc" class="page unresolved">Post-Processor Water</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2271:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Effects Overview</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2290:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">Terrain</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2333:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/sky.adoc" class="page unresolved">Sky</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2346:<p>If your game is heavily using features that older cards do not support, you can <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/read_graphic_card_capabilites.adoc" class="page unresolved">Read Graphic Card Capabilites</a> in the beginning before starting the app, and then decide how to proceed.</p>
tutorials/concepts/faq.html:2366:<p>to the <a href="#ROOT:jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a> (see details there).<br>
tutorials/concepts/multi-media_asset_pipeline.html:992:<p>You <a href="#ROOT:jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">create models</a> in a 3D mesh editor, for example <a href="https://www.blender.org">Blender</a>, and export them in GLTF, Wavefront OBJ, or any <a href="../../jme3/features.html#supported-external-file-types" class="page">Supported External File Type</a>.</p>
tutorials/concepts/multi-media_asset_pipeline.html:1202:<p>Install a mesh editor such as <a href="#ROOT:jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Blender</a> or 3D Studio MAX. Reuse textures and materials as much as possible. <strong>Consult the mesh editor&#8217;s documentation for specific details how to do the following tasks.</strong></p>
tutorials/concepts/multi-media_asset_pipeline.html:1228:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/j3m_material_files.adoc" class="page unresolved">Create materials</a> for your models either in the 3D editor, or in the jME3 SDK. Only use the following material features: <strong>Diffuse Map or Diffuse Color (minimum); plus optionally Normal Map, Glow Map, Specular Map.</strong><br>
tutorials/concepts/multi-media_asset_pipeline.html:1347:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/save_and_load.adoc" class="page unresolved">Save and Load</a></p>
tutorials/concepts/the_scene_graph.html:1163:<p>The <em>scene graph</em> represents your 3D world. Objects in the jME3 scene graph are called <a href="#core/scene/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a>s. Everything attached to the parent <em>rootNode</em> is part of your scene. Your game inherits the <code>rootNode</code> object from the <code>SimpleApplication</code> class.</p>
tutorials/concepts/the_scene_graph.html:1297:<p><a href="#core/scene/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a> – More details about working with Nodes and Geometries</p>
tutorials/concepts/the_scene_graph.html:1300:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/traverse_scenegraph.adoc" class="page unresolved">Traverse SceneGraph</a> – Find any Node or Geometry in the scenegraph.</p>
tutorials/concepts/the_scene_graph.html:1303:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/camera.adoc" class="page unresolved">Camera</a> – Learn more about the Camera in the scene.</p>
tutorials/concepts/optimization.html:1015:<p>Using a <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/texture_atlas.adoc" class="page unresolved">Texture Atlas</a> provides limited individual texturing of batched geometries.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_physics.html:1675:<p>You have learned how to activate the jBullet PhysicsSpace in an application by adding a <code>BulletAppState</code>. You have created PhysicsControls for simple Shape-based Geometries (for more complex shapes, read up on <a href="#physics/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">CollisionShapes</a>). You have learned that physical objects are not only attached to the rootNode, but also registered to the PhysicsSpace. You know that it makes a difference whether a physical object has a mass (dynamic) or not (static). You are aware that overusing physics has a huge performance impact.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_physics.html:1685:<p>Congratulations! – You have completed the last beginner tutorial. Now you are ready to start <a href="#ROOT:jme3.adoc" class="page unresolved">combining what you have learned</a>, to create a cool 3D game of your own. Show us what you can do, and feel free to share your demos, game videos, and screenshots on the <a href="http://hub.jmonkeyengine.org/c/user-code-projects">User Code &amp; Projects Forum</a>!</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_terrain.html:1620:<p>Can you combine what you learned here and in <a href="hello_collision.html" class="page">Hello Collision</a>, and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/terrain_collision.adoc" class="page unresolved">make the terrain solid</a>?</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_terrain.html:1637:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/terrain_collision.adoc" class="page unresolved">Terrain Collision</a></p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_terrain.html:1640:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">Advanced Terrain</a></p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_material.html:1569:<p><a href="#tutorials:concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to Use Materials</a></p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_collision.html:1652:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/terrain_collision.adoc" class="page unresolved">Terrain Collision</a></p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_main_event_loop.html:1147:<p>Move code blocks from the simpleInitApp() method to <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a>.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_main_event_loop.html:1150:<p>Move code blocks from the simpleUpdate() method to <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a>.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_main_event_loop.html:1220:<p>Advanced jME3 developers use <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> to implement game mechanics in their update loops. You will come across these topics again later when you proceed to more advanced documentation.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_picking.html:990:<p>This tutorial relies on what you have learned in the <a href="hello_input_system.html" class="page">Hello Input</a> tutorial. You find more related code samples under <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/mouse_picking.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Picking</a> and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/collision_and_intersection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Collision and Intersection</a>.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_node.html:1586:<p>Tip: If your game idea calls for a serious amount of rotations, it is worth looking into <a href="#ROOT:jme3/quaternion.adoc" class="page unresolved">quaternions</a>, a data structure that can combine and store rotations efficiently.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_audio.html:1423:<p>If you want sound to be &#8220;absorbed&#8221; by the walls and only broadcast in one direction, you would make this AudioNode directional. This tutorial does not discuss directional sounds, you can read about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">Advanced Audio</a> here.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_audio.html:1446:<p>JME&#8217;s Audio implementation also supports more advanced effects such as reverberation and Doppler effect. Use these &#8220;pro&#8221; features to make audio sound different depending on whether it&#8217;s in the hallway, in a cave, outdoors, or in a carpeted room. Find out more about environmental effects from the sample code included in the jme3test directory and from the advanced <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">Advanced Audio</a> docs.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_asset.html:1566:<p><a href="#ROOT:jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">The definitive Blender import tutorial</a></p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_simpleapplication.html:1424:<p>Then have all logic implemented in <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a> and your SimpleApplication will never change much, except when you want to add a bootstrap AppState (or maybe you can have an AppState that manages AppStates&#8230;&#8203;), SimpleApplication is just the list of states you are using.</p>
tutorials/beginner/hello_effects.html:1505:<p>You can find details about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc#configure_parameters" class="page unresolved">effect parameters</a> here.
tutorials/beginner/solutions.html:980:<p>This is a user-proposed group of solutions for some or all of the exercises presented throughout the beginner tutorials (<a href="#ROOT:jme3.adoc#tutorials_for_beginners" class="page unresolved">tutorials_for_beginners</a>).
contributions/lanscapes/vegetationsystem/vegetationsystem.html:1009:<p>Proceed to the grass section: <a href="#../../jme3/contributions/vegetationsystem/grass.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:vegetationsystem:grass</a></p>
contributions/lanscapes/vegetationsystem/vegetationsystem.html:1017:<p>Proceed to the tree section: <a href="#../../jme3/contributions/vegetationsystem/trees.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:vegetationsystem:trees</a></p>
contributions/tools/charts.html:984:<p>Previous: <a href="#jme3/tools/navigation.adoc" class="page unresolved">Navigation</a></p>
contributions/tools/charts.html:995:<p>About the <a href="#jme3/tools/navigation.adoc" class="page unresolved">Navigation package</a>.</p>
contributions/tools/charts.html:1032:<p>In essence, 3D chart visualization is achieved by converting the polygons composing planet earth&#8217;s landmass into float matrices whereby each value within the matrix represents a specific terrain height. For example, given a terrain of 100 x 100 world units, we construct a heightmap by creating a 100 x 100 matrix. Each cell within the matrix corresponds to a terrain coordinate; each cell’s value to that coordinate’s desired height. But you already knew that, so where&#8217;s the tricky part? Well, when visualizing a chart an accurate projection requires a translation of latitude/longitude coordinates into their equivalent world unit (x,y,z) counterparts. This translation however is not a straight forward mapping of one coordinate system into the other due to the distortion arising from projecting an oblate spheroid onto a flat surface (see my previous wiki article <a href="#jme3/tools/navigation.adoc" class="page unresolved">here</a>). This means that if one would adhere to a linear scale, the Mercator projection would distort the size and shape of objects as the object distances itself from the equator, eventually resulting in infinite scaling as the pole is reached. So the first task at hand, is to construct accurate 2D projections of planet earth which we can then use as heightmaps. We can achieve this using the jme3.tools.navigation package and co-ordinate sets available at <a href="https://maps.ngdc.noaa.gov/viewers/geophysics/">noaa.gov</a>.</p>
contributions/tools/charts.html:1035:<p>As <a href="#jme3/tools/navigation.adoc" class="page unresolved">previously discussed</a>, the distortion in latitude is derived by using the difference in meridional parts between the chart’s centre and the current position as a baseline; through converting the difference to world units by dividing it by the number of world units contained within one minute, a latitude’s y-coordinate can be obtained. Calculating a position’s x-coordinate is somewhat easier as the distortion only applies to latitude, not longitude. Therefore x merely equals the sum or difference between itself and the viewport’s centre coordinate, depending on the relative location of the position itself and the chart’s centre. Despite being able to convert between the two coordinate systems, slight precision problems remain once the chart projection is scaled down past a level of 6 meters. This is caused by the pixel referencing system of modern displays being integer based; once the ratio of minutes to pixels exceeds the aforementioned threshold, slight inaccuracies are introduced into the display. However this is of little relevance to most GIS (such as Debrief) as a) the inaccuracies are a matter of meters (or even centimetres) and b) it is impossible to notice this variation as GPS exposes a much higher inaccuracy (between 10 - 100 meters).</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/advanced.html:983:<p>If you are new to this subject please read the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/introduction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Introduction</a> first.</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/advanced.html:1047:For example <a href="#../../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a> can deal with different components and can easily be added to the Application.</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/detailed.html:986:<p>You should 've read a brief introduction here: <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem/introduction.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:entitysystem:introduction</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/detailed.html:1341:<p>Here is a short one to help you get start quickly : <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem/terms.adoc" class="page unresolved">terms</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/detailed.html:1552:<p>Detailed explaination : <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem/points.adoc" class="page unresolved">points</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/detailed.html:2123:<p>Wiki: <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:entitysystem</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/detailed.html:2233:<p>[4] <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem/introduction.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:entitysystem:introduction</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/interviews.html:1043:Detail explanation of abbove points <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem/points.adoc" class="page unresolved">points</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/interviews.html:1115:<p>Wiki: <a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3:contributions:entitysystem</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/beginner.html:983:<p>If you are new Entity Systems please read the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/introduction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Introduction</a> first.</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/beginner.html:1204:It is strongly recommended that you read the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/entityset.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity Set tutorial</a> after reading this article.</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/beginner.html:1214:<p>Read the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/entityset.adoc" class="page unresolved">tutorial</a> about entity sets</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/usage.html:1038:<p>For the single parts of your programm who deal with special components it is recommended to use <a href="#../../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a>.</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem/introduction.html:1082:<p>For a more detailed and technical view, have a look at the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/advanced.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Advanced</a> article</p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1000:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/introduction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Introduction</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1006:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/detailed.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Detailed</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1009:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/interviews.adoc" class="page unresolved">Entity System Approaches and Interviews</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1022:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/beginner.adoc" class="page unresolved">Zay-ES Beginner</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1025:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/entityset.adoc" class="page unresolved">The EntitySet</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1046:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/examples/damagesystem.adoc" class="page unresolved">Making a Damage System</a></p>
contributions/es/entitysystem.html:1049:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/entitysystem/examples/own_logic_thread.adoc" class="page unresolved">Your Own Logic Thread</a></p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1105:<p>This will open the <code>Create NavMesh</code> dialog with default settings. You can read in depth about each parameter by following the <code>Configuration Parameters</code> link under <a href="#jme3/advanced/jme3_ai.adoc#requirements.adoc" class="page unresolved">Requirements</a>.</p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1189:<p>There are many ways to create a NavMesh. If you look at the constructor for the <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/doc-examples/blob/master/src/com/jme3/examples/jme3ai/Jme3AI.java">Jme3AI.java</a> file, you will see I use a <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc#baseappstate.adoc" class="page unresolved">BaseAppState</a> named <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/doc-examples/blob/master/src/com/jme3/examples/jme3ai/ai/NavMeshState.java">NavMeshState.java</a> which creates a <code>generator</code> object and builds the <code>NavMesh</code> new every time the program is ran.</p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1461:<p>In this tutorial example, the optimized mesh was exported as a geometry using the jMonkey binary format <code>.j3o</code>. Doing so means the loading of your <code>NavMeshes</code> is done the same way you load any model, by using the <code>AssetManager</code>. Once you load the <code>.j3o</code>, you grab its <code>Mesh</code> and create the <code>NavMesh</code> object to be passed to the <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/doc-examples/blob/master/src/com/jme3/examples/jme3ai/ai/NavigationControl.java">NavigationControl</a> constructor. This tutorial uses a <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc#baseappstate.adoc" class="page unresolved">BaseAppState</a> for model loading so access to the <code>Application</code> class is built in.</p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1500:<p>This tutorial makes use of the <a href="../../tutorials/beginner/hello_picking.html" class="page">Hello Picking</a> and <a href="#jme3/advanced/mouse_picking.adoc#pick-a-target-using-the-mouse-pointer.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Picking</a> tutorials so you should already be familiar with this method for picking and how to add the <a href="../../tutorials/beginner/hello_input_system.html" class="page">input mappings</a> to your game. How you implement your ActionListener is up to you.</p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1574:<p>The <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/doc-examples/blob/master/src/com/jme3/examples/jme3ai/ai/NavigationControl.java">NavigationControl</a> is a <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom control</a> that extends the <a href="https://github.com/MeFisto94/jme3-artificial-intelligence/blob/master/AI/src/com/jme3/ai/navmesh/NavMeshPathfinder.java">NavMeshPathFinder</a> class of the Jme3AI library and implements the <code>Pickable</code> interface.</p>
contributions/ai/jme3_ai.html:1651:<p>The easiest way to move a physics character is by using the <a href="#jme3/advanced/walking_character.adoc#bettercharactercontrol.adoc" class="page unresolved">BetterCharacterControl</a> class. In this implementation, this is done in the <a href="https://github.com/jMonkeyEngine/doc-examples/blob/master/src/com/jme3/examples/jme3ai/controls/PCControl.java">PCControl</a> class by extending <code>BetterCharacterControl</code>. Since <code>BetterCharacterControl</code> is required to be present on the spatial for pathfinding, in the <code>setSpatial()</code> method, we throw an exception to let us know if it&#8217;s missing.</p>
contributions/ai/steer_behaviours.html:1011:<p>The steer behaviors AI is integrated with MonkeyBrains so before start coding be sure that you have checked the <a href="#jme3/advanced/monkey_brains.adoc" class="page unresolved">monkey brains documentation</a>.</p>
contributions/ai/recast.html:1278:<p>If there is problem with building C++ project see <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/building_recast.adoc" class="page unresolved">link</a>.</p>
contributions/ai/recast.html:1311:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/building_recast.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to build the native recast bindings</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/scrollarea.html:981:<p>Utilizes the standard 3 constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a> with the addition of a single boolean:</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/dial.html:991:<p>The Dial class provides the standard 3 common constructors as sown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/panel.html:986:<p>The 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/panel.html:1037:<p>The Panel class creates a resizable, movable panel (<a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/window.adoc" class="page unresolved">Window</a> without a dragbar). The entire panel is clickable for moving unless otherwise covered by added child Elements that have not called:</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/panel.html:1045:<p>You can disable any of the default behaviors of the Panel class by using the methods described in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/element.adoc" class="page unresolved">Element</a> class.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/dialogbox.html:984:<p>It utilizes the 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/alertbox.html:984:<p>It utilizes the 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/button.html:1006:<p>Again, the same three options for constructor are available as show in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/window.html:984:<p>It provides the 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/window.html:1037:<p>Once again, default behaviors, such as moving, and resizing can be disabled calling the appropriate setters from the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/element.adoc" class="page unresolved">Element</a> class.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/textfield.html:1033:<p>TextFields provide the standard 3 constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/screen.html:981:<p>You can create a screen using one of the two provided constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1024:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1030:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/donts.adoc" class="page unresolved">Don&#8217;ts</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1036:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/screen.adoc" class="page unresolved">The Screen Class</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1037:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/multiplescreens.adoc" class="page unresolved">Implementing Multiple Screens</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1038:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/xmllayouts.adoc" class="page unresolved">Using XML to Define Layouts</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1039:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/element.adoc" class="page unresolved">The Element Class</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1047:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/button.adoc" class="page unresolved">Button</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1048:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/checkbox.adoc" class="page unresolved">Check Box</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1049:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/radiobutton.adoc" class="page unresolved">Radio Button</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1050:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/radiobuttongroup.adoc" class="page unresolved">Radio Button Group</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1056:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/slider.adoc" class="page unresolved">Slider</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1057:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/spinner.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spinner</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1058:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/dial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Dial</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1059:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/combobox.adoc" class="page unresolved">ComboBox &amp; SelectBox</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1065:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/label.adoc" class="page unresolved">Label</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1066:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/textfield.adoc" class="page unresolved">Text Field</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1067:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/password.adoc" class="page unresolved">Password</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1073:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/menu.adoc" class="page unresolved">Menu</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1079:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/scrollarea.adoc" class="page unresolved">Scroll Area</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1085:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/panel.adoc" class="page unresolved">Panel</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1086:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/window.adoc" class="page unresolved">Window</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1087:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/alertbox.adoc" class="page unresolved">Alert Box</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1088:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/dialogbox.adoc" class="page unresolved">Dialog Box</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1094:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/indicator.adoc" class="page unresolved">Indicators</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1095:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/osrviewport.adoc" class="page unresolved">Off-screen Rendered View Port</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1096:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/dragelement.adoc" class="page unresolved">Drag Element</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1103:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/effectmanager.adoc" class="page unresolved">The Effect Manager</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1104:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/createeffects.adoc" class="page unresolved">Effects</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1110:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/customcontrols.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating New Controls</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1116:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/styles.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating A New Theme</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1124:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evmousefocus.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Focus Listener</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1125:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evtabfocus.adoc" class="page unresolved">Tab Focus Listener</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1131:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evmousebutton.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Button Listener</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1132:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evmousewheel.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Wheel Listener</a>,
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1133:<a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evmousemove.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Movement Listener</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/tonegodgui.html:1139:<p><a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/evkeyboard.adoc" class="page unresolved">Keyboard Listener</a></p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/slider.html:981:<p>The Slider class provides the same 3 common contrustors shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a> with the addition of two extra parameters.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/radiobutton.html:994:<p>Again, the same three options for constructor are available as show in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/spinner.html:1000:<p>The Spinner class provides the same 3 common constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a> with the addition of two extra parameters.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/menu.html:1003:<p>Menu utilizes the standard 3 constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a> with the addition of a single boolean:</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/checkbox.html:994:<p>Again, the same three options for constructor are available as show in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/osrviewport.html:984:<p>To initialize the OSRViewPort you can call one of the 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/indicator.html:984:<p>The Indicator uses the 3 standard constructors as shown in the <a href="#jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a> with the addition of one extra parameter:</p>
contributions/gui/tonegodgui/password.html:984:<p>It uses the standard 3 constructors as shown in the <a href="#../../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui/quickstart.adoc" class="page unresolved">Quick Start Guide</a>.</p>
contributions/contributions.html:1133:<p><a href="#jme3/contributions/particles.adoc" class="page unresolved">Wiki Page</a></p>
contributions/contributions.html:1182:<p><a href="#jme3/contributions/tonegodgui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Wiki Page</a></p>
contributions/contributions.html:1280:<p><a href="#jme3/contributions/entitysystem.adoc" class="page unresolved">Wiki Page</a></p>
networking/networking.html:1745:<p>Learn more about using <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/multithreading.adoc" class="page unresolved">multithreading</a> in jME3 here.</p>
networking/monkey_zone.html:1066:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Controls</a> are used extensively in MonkeyZone for many aspects of the game. When a player enters an entity, the Spatials Controls are configured based on the player that enters. For example when the human user enters an entity, Controls that update the user interface (DefaultHUDControl) or user input (UserInputControl) are added to the current entity Spatial.</p>
networking/headless_server.html:1062:<p>Integrate <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/networking.adoc" class="page unresolved">SpiderMonkey</a>, to provide game updates to the server over a network.</p>
networking/headless_server.html:1068:<p>Add decent <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/logging.adoc" class="page unresolved">logging</a> so your server actually makes sense.</p>
core/terrain/terrain.html:1020:<p>Streaming <a href="#jme3/advanced/endless_terraingrid.adoc" class="page unresolved">terrain grid</a> (i.e. infinite terrain)</p>
core/input/combo_moves.html:1035:<p>First you <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">define your game&#8217;s inputs</a> as you usually do: Implement the com.jme3.input.controls.ActionListener interface for your class, and add triggers mappings such as com.jme3.input.controls.KeyTrigger and com.jme3.input.KeyInput.</p>
core/input/mouse_picking.html:990:<p>See <a href="#jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">Input Handling</a> for details on how to define the necessary input triggers, input mappings, and input listeners.</p>
core/animation/animation.html:1018:<p><a href="#jme3/features.adoc#supported-external-file-types" class="page unresolved">Supported External File Types</a></p>
core/animation/animation.html:1021:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating assets in Blender3D</a></p>
core/system/appsettings.html:1000:<p><strong>Note:</strong> Other runtime settings are covered in <a href="#../../jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleApplication</a>.</p>
core/system/appsettings.html:1204:See <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/jme3_srgbpipeline.adoc" class="page unresolved">Gamma Correction or sRGB pipeline</a></p>
core/asset/asset_manager.html:1382:<p>If you don&#8217;t use the SDK for some reason, you can still convert models to j3o format: Load any model in Ogre3D or Wavefront format with the AssetManager.loadModel() as a spatial. Then save the spatial as j3o file using <a href="#jme3/advanced/save_and_load.adoc" class="page unresolved">BinaryExporter</a>.</p>
core/math/quaternion.html:1064:<p>If you have three axes that define your rotation, where the axes define the left axis, up axis and directional axis respectively) you can make use of <code>fromAxes</code> to generate the Quaternion. It should be noted that this will generate a new <a href="#jme3/matrix.adoc" class="page unresolved">Matrix</a> object that is then garbage collected, thus, this method should not be used if it will be called many times. Again, <code>toAxes</code> will populate a <a href="../../tutorials/concepts/terminology.html#vectors" class="page">Vector3f</a> array.</p>
core/math/quaternion.html:1084:<p>Commonly you might find yourself with a <a href="#jme3/matrix.adoc" class="page unresolved">Matrix</a> defining a <a href="../../tutorials/concepts/rotate.html" class="page">rotation</a>. In fact, it&#8217;s very common to contain a rotation in a Matrix, create a Quaternion, rotate the Quaternion, and then get the Matrix back. Quaternion contains a <code>fromRotationMatrix</code> method that will create the appropriate Quaternion based on the given Matrix. The <code>toRotationMatrix</code> will populate a given Matrix.</p>
core/shader/jme3_shadernodes.html:1083:<a href="#../../jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">jMonkeyEngine3 Material Specification</a></p>
core/cinematic/cinematics.html:986:<p>Internally, Cinematics are implemented as <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a>.</p>
core/cinematic/cinematics.html:1152:<p>Use a SoundEvent to play a <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">sound</a> at a given time for the given duration.</p>
core/cinematic/cinematics.html:1160:<p>Displays a <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI</a> at a given time for the given duration. Use it to display subtitles or HUD elements. Bind the Nifty <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> XML to the cinematic using <code>cinematic.bindUi(“path/to/nifty/file.xml);</code></p>
core/cinematic/cinematics.html:1168:<p>Use this to start playing a model <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">animation</a> at a given time (a character walking animation for example)</p>
core/cinematic/cinematics.html:1195:<p><code>path</code> is a complex <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/motionpath.adoc" class="page unresolved">MotionPath</a>.</p>
core/cinematic/motionpath.html:993:<p>If you want to remote-control a whole cutscene with several spatials moving at various times, then we recommened you use MotionPaths together with <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a>.</p>
core/material/j3m_material_files.html:984:<p>In the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/material_definitions.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material Definitions</a> article you learned how to configure <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/materials_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Materials</a>  programmatically in Java code. If you have certain commonly used Materials that never change, you can clean up the amount of Java code that clutters your init method, by moving material settings into .j3m files. Then later in your code, you only need to call one setter instead of several to apply the material.</p>
core/material/j3m_material_files.html:1037:<p>After the colon, specify on which <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/materials_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material</a> definition you base this Material.</p>
core/material/j3m_material_files.html:1043:<p>Now look up the choosen Material Definition&#8217;s parameters and their parameter types from the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/materials_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material</a> table. Add one line for each parameter.</p>
core/material/j3m_material_files.html:1111:<p>The paths to the built-in .j3md files are relative to jME3&#8217;s Core Data directory. Just copy the path stated in the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/materials_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material</a> table.<br>
core/material/j3m_material_files.html:1594:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">Developer specification of the jME3 material system (.j3md,.j3m)</a></p>
core/material/how_to_use_materials.html:998:<p>You want to make the most of your 3D models by specifying good looking material parameters. The developers must be in contact with the graphic designers regarding which of the <a href="materials_overview.html" class="page">Material properties</a> they intend to use in their 3D models. You must have an understanding what <a href="#intermediate/terminology.adoc#materials-textures" class="page unresolved">texture maps</a> are, to be able to use texture-mapped materials.</p>
core/material/how_to_use_materials.html:1008:<p>Don&#8217;t forget to add a <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Light Source</a> to the scene! All Materials (except &#8220;Unshaded&#8221; ones) are <strong>invisible</strong> without a light source.</p>
core/material/how_to_use_materials.html:1015:<p>If you want more advanced background info: You can learn more about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/material_definitions.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material Definitions</a> in general here. You can find the full list of Material Parameters in the <a href="materials_overview.html" class="page">Material Definitions Properties</a> overview. The following sections introduce you to the most commonly used cases. You typically initialize Material objects in the <code>simpleInitApp()</code> method, and configure them using the setters described here. Then load the Materials using <code>myGeometry.setMaterial(mat)</code>.</p>
core/material/how_to_use_materials.html:1283:<p>Add one <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/bloom_and_glow.adoc" class="page unresolved">BloomFilter PostProcessor</a> in your simpleInitApp() method (only once, it is used by all glowing objects).</p>
core/material/how_to_use_materials.html:1329:<p>Learn more about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/bloom_and_glow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Bloom and Glow</a>.</p>
core/material/materials_overview.html:992:<p>Each Material is based on one of jme3&#8217;s default Material Definitions (.j3md files) that are included in the engine. Advanced users can create additional custom Material Definitions (see how it&#8217;s done in the <a href="#jme3/build_from_sources.adoc" class="page unresolved">jme3 sources</a>).</p>
core/material/materials_overview.html:1004:<p>Find out quickly <a href="#tutorials:concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to Use Materials</a>, including the most commonly used code samples and RenderStates.<br>
core/material/materials_overview.html:1005:Or find more background info on <a href="#jme3/advanced/material_definitions.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to use Material Definitions</a>.</p>
core/material/materials_overview.html:1128:<p>See also: <a href="#jme3/advanced/sky.adoc" class="page unresolved">Sky</a></p>
core/material/materials_overview.html:1253:<p>Illuminated materials require a <a href="#jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">light source</a> added to at least one of their parent nodes! (e.g. rootNode.) Illuminated materials are darker on the sides facing away from light sources. They use Phong illumination model (default), or the Ward isotropic gaussian specular shader (WardIso) which looks more like plastic. They do not cast <a href="#jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">drop shadows</a> unless you use a FilterPostProcessor.</p>
core/material/materials_overview.html:1758:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">Developer specification of the jME3 material system (.j3md,.j3m)</a></p>
core/material/material_definitions.html:987:<p>The most common Material Definitions are included in the engine, advanced users can create custom ones. In this case you will also be interested in the <a href="#jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">in-depth developer specification of the jME3 material system</a>.</p>
core/material/material_definitions.html:1009:<p>If you use one custom material with certain settings very often, learn about storing material settings in <a href="#jme3/advanced/j3m_material_files.adoc" class="page unresolved">j3m Material Files</a>. You either <a href="../../sdk/material_editing.html" class="page">use the jMonkeyEngine SDK to create .j3m files</a> (user-friendly), or you <a href="#jme3/advanced/j3m_material_files.adoc" class="page unresolved">write .j3m files in a text editor</a> (IDE-independent).</p>
core/material/material_definitions.html:1105:<p>For details see also: <a href="#tutorials:concepts/how_to_use_materials.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to Use Materials</a></p>
core/material/material_definitions.html:1187:<p>First read the <a href="#jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">developer specification of the jME3 material system (.j3md,.j3m)</a>. Also check out the <a href="#jme3/build_from_sources.adoc" class="page unresolved">engine source code</a> and have a look at how some Material Definitions are implemented.</p>
core/material/material_definitions.html:1223:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/material_specification.adoc" class="page unresolved">Developer specification of the jME3 material system (.j3md,.j3m)</a></p>
core/ui/hud.html:1036:<p>Use advanced <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI</a> integration:</p>
core/ui/hud.html:1049:<p>Use user contributed <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> libraries such as <a href="#../../jme3/contributions/tonegodgui.adoc" class="page unresolved">tonegodgui</a> or <a href="http://hub.jmonkeyengine.org/t/lemur-api-documentation/27209">Lemur</a>:</p>
core/ui/hud.html:1214:<p>The recommended approach to create HUDs is using <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI</a>.</p>
core/ui/hud.html:1233:<p>For HUDs, you basically follow the same instructions as for creating a normal <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI</a>, you just don&#8217;t pause the game while the HUD is up.</p>
core/ui/hud.html:1243:<p><a href="#../../jme3/external/fonts.adoc" class="page unresolved">Fonts</a></p>
core/app/update_loop.html:984:<p>Extending your application from <a href="#jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">com.jme3.app.SimpleApplication</a> provides you with an update loop. This is where you implement your game logic (game mechanics).</p>
core/app/update_loop.html:1009:<p>Update overall game state – Execute <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a></p>
core/app/update_loop.html:1015:<p>Logical update of entities – Execute <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a></p>
core/app/update_loop.html:1025:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> rendering.</p>
core/app/update_loop.html:1054:<p>In a trivial <a href="#jme3/intermediate/simpleapplication.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleApplication</a> (such as a <a href="../../tutorials/beginner/beginner.html" class="page">Hello World tutorial</a>), all code is either in the <code>simpleInitApp()</code> (initialization) or <code>simpleUpdate()</code> (behaviour) method – or in a helper method/class that is called from one of these two. This trivial approach will make your main class very long, hard to read, and hard to maintain. You don&#8217;t need to load the whole scene at once, and you don&#8217;t need to run all conditionals tests all the time.</p>
core/app/update_loop.html:1062:<p>Move modular code blocks from the <code>simpleInitApp()</code> method into <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a>. Attach AppStates to initialize custom subsets of &#8220;one&#8221; dungeon, and detach it when the player exits this &#8220;dungeon&#8221;.<br>
core/app/update_loop.html:1066:<p>Move modular code blocks from the <code>simpleUpdate()</code> method into the update loops of <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> to control individual entity behavior (NPCs), and into the update method of <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a> to control world events.<br>
core/app/multithreading.html:1016:<p>First, make sure you know what <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> and <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> are.</p>
core/app/state/application_states.html:983:<p>The <code>com.jme3.app.state.AppState</code> class is a customizable jME3 interface that allows you to control the global game logic, the overall game mechanics. (To control the behaviour of a Spatial, see <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> instead. Controls and AppStates can be used together.)</p>
core/app/state/capture_audio_video_to_a_file.html:1000:<a href="#../../jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:997:<p>For each game, you (directly or indirectly) extend SimpleApplication exactly once as the central class. If you need access to any SimpleApplication features from another game class, make the other class extend <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AbstractAppState</a> (don&#8217;t extend SimpleApplication once more).</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1075:<p>The view object for the default camera. You can register advanced <a href="#jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">post-processor filters</a> here.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1085:See: <a href="#jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a>.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1094:<p>The default <a href="#jme3/advanced/camera.adoc" class="page unresolved">camera</a> provides perspective projection, 45° field of view, near plane = 1 wu, far plane = 1000 wu.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1113:<p>This object gives you access to the jME3 <a href="#jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">audio</a> system.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1122:<p>This object represents the user&#8217;s ear for the jME3 <a href="#jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">audio</a> system.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1140:<p>You use the Application&#8217;s state manager to activate <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppStates</a>, such as <a href="#physics/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Physics</a>.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1178:<p>Loads modified <a href="#jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a> into the current application context.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1196:Type.Canvas – jME application is embedded in a <a href="#jme3/advanced/swing_canvas.adoc" class="page unresolved">Swing Canvas</a>.<br>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1197:Type.Headless – jME application runs its event loop without calculating any view and without opening any window. Can be used for a <a href="#jme3/advanced/headless_server.adoc" class="page unresolved">Headless Server</a> application.<br>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1221:<p>The application context contains the renderer, <a href="#jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a>, timer, etc. Typically, you do not directly access the context object.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1229:<p>this internal boolean is true if you want the system to listen for user inputs, and false if you just want to play a non-interactive scene. You change the boolean using <a href="#jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a>.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1258:<p>The view object for the orthogonal <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> view. Only used internally for <a href="#jme3/advanced/hud.adoc" class="page unresolved">HUD</a>s.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1330:<p>Attach flat <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> elements (such as <a href="#jme3/advanced/hud.adoc" class="page unresolved">HUD</a> images and text) to this orthogonal <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> node to make them appear on the screen.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1415:<p>Override this method to initialize the game scene. Here you load and create objects, attach Spatials to the rootNode, and bring everything in its starts position. See also <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> for best practices.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1423:<p>Override this method to hook into the <a href="#jme3/advanced/update_loop.adoc" class="page unresolved">update loop</a>, all code you put here is repeated in a loop. Use this loop to poll the current game state and respond to changes, or to let the game mechanics generate encounters and initiate state changes. Use the float <code>tpf</code> as a factor to time actions relative to the <em>time per frame</em> in seconds: <code>tpf</code> is large on slow PCs, and small on fast PCs.<br>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1424:For more info on how to hook into the update loop, see <a href="#jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> and <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a>.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1445:<p>Use <code>app.setShowSettings(true);</code> to present the user with a splashscreen and the built-in display settings dialog when starting the game; or use <code>app.setShowSettings(false);</code> to hide the built-in screen (in this case, you may want to provide a custom splashscreen and settings panel). Set this boolean before calling <code>app.start()</code> in the <code>main()</code> method of the SimpleApplication. See also <a href="#jme3/intermediate/appsettings.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppSettings</a>.</p>
core/app/simpleapplication.html:1457:<p>The following default navigational input actions are mapped by the default <code>flyCam</code> control in a SimpleApplication: You can use these mappings for debugging and testing until you implement custom <a href="#jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">input handling</a>.</p>
core/renderer/making_the_camera_follow_a_character.html:999:<p><strong>Important:</strong> Using third-person view requires you to deactivate the default flyCam (first-person view). This means that you have to configure your own navigation (<a href="#../../jme3/advanced/input_handling.adoc" class="page unresolved">key inputs and analogListener</a>) that make your player character walk. For moving a physical player character, use <code>player.setWalkDirection()</code>, for a non-physical character you can use <code>player.move()</code>.</p>
core/renderer/making_the_camera_follow_a_character.html:1076:Example: Use with <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">CharacterControl</a>led spatial.</p>
core/renderer/remote-controlling_the_camera.html:985:<p>You can steer the camera using <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/cinematics.adoc" class="page unresolved">Cinematics</a>:</p>
core/util/sky.html:1093:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/free_skymaps.adoc" class="page unresolved">How to create free skymaps</a></p>
core/util/sky.html:1096:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc#skybox-baking.adoc" class="page unresolved">SkyBox baking</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:983:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:986:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:989:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI XML Layout</a> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Layout</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:992:<p><strong>Nifty <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> Overlay</strong> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:995:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:1008:<p>You can also <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">project</a> the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> as a texture onto a mesh texture (but then you cannot click to select).
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:1031:<p>The jme3-niftygui library is included in jMonkeyEngine. If you installed jMonkeyEngine using one of the <a href="#documentation.adoc#install" class="page unresolved">optional methods</a>, it will be added to your projects Library folder as part of the installation. If you&#8217;re using the jMonkeyEngine SDK, you add it to any project by <b class="button">RMB</b> selecting your projects <code>Library</code> folder, choosing <code><span class="menuseq"><b class="menu">Add Library</b>&#160;<i class="fa fa-angle-right caret"></i> <b class="menuitem">jme-niftygui</b></span></code> followed by <code>Add Library</code>.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_overlay.html:1091:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:983:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:986:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:989:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI XML Layout</a> or <strong>Nifty <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> Java Layout</strong></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:992:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:995:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:1128:<p>In this tutorial, you recreate the same screen as in the <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Laying out the GUI in XML</a> example.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:1485:<p>The font used is jME3&#8217;s default font &#8220;Interface/Fonts/Default.fnt&#8221; which is included in the jMonkeyEngine.JAR. You can add your own fonts to your own <code>assets/Interface</code> directory. Set your font to the one you created during the start of the <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc#implement-your-gui-layout#" class="page unresolved">Gui Implementation</a> phase of your game.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:1933:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> (recommended)</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_layout.html:1936:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a> (optional)</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:983:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:986:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:989:<p><strong>Nifty <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> XML Layout</strong> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Layout</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:992:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:995:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:1142:<p>Lastly, see: <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty Gui Overlay</a> on how to setup your game to display your GUI.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:1527:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> (recommended)</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_xml_layout.html:1530:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a> (optional)</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:983:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:986:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:989:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI XML Layout</a> or <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Layout</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:992:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> or <strong>Nifty <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> Projection</strong></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:995:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:1005:<p>Typically you define a key (for example escape) to switch the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> on and off. Then you <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">overlay</a> the running game with the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> (you will most likely pause the game then).</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:1065:<p>The MySettingsScreen class is a custom de.lessvoid.nifty.screen.ScreenController in which you implement your <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> behaviour.  The variable <code>data</code> contains an object that you use to exchange state info with the game. See <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Interaction</a> for details on how to create this class.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_projection.html:1081:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:983:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:986:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:989:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI XML Layout</a> or <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Layout</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:992:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> or <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:1011:<p><strong>Pro Tip:</strong> Since you are writing a jME3 application, you can additionally make the ScreenController class extend the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">BaseAppState</a> class! This gives the ScreenController access to the application object and to the update loop!</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_java_interaction.html:1370:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_scenarios.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Scenarios</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:990:<p>You may want your players to press a button to save a game, you want a scrolling text field for highscores, a text label to display the score, drop-downs to select keymap preferences, or checkboxes to specify multi-media options. Usually you solve these tasks by using Swing controls. Although it is possible to embed a <a href="#jme3/advanced/swing_canvas.adoc" class="page unresolved">jME3 canvas</a> in a Swing <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr>, a 3D game typically runs full-screen, or in a window of its own.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1016:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_best_practices.adoc" class="page unresolved">Browse this short list of Best Practices</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1023:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Lay out the GUI in XML</a> – or –</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1026:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Lay out the GUI in Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1036:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Overlay the User Interface Over the Screen</a>  – or –</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1039:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Project the User Interface Onto a Texture</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1045:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Interact with the GUI from Java</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui.html:1073:<p>Screen are <a href="#jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">controlled by a Java Controller class</a>.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_best_practices.html:989:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Concepts</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_best_practices.html:995:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_xml_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI XML Layout</a> or <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_layout.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Layout</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_best_practices.html:998:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_overlay.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Overlay</a> or <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_projection.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Projection</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_best_practices.html:1001:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_java_interaction.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI Java Interaction</a></p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_scenarios.html:988:<p>Requirements: These tips assume that you have read and understood the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating JME3 User Interfaces with Nifty GUI</a> tutorial, and have already laid out a basic <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> that interacts with your JME3 application. Here you learn how you integrate the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> better, and add effects and advanced controls.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_scenarios.html:1015:<p>In JME, game states are implemented as custom <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">AppState</a> objects. Write each AppState so it brings its own input mappings, rootNode content, update loop behaviour, etc with it.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_scenarios.html:1039:<p>Since you are writing a jME3 application, you can additionally make any ScreenController class extend the <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">BaseAppState</a> class.
core/gui/nifty_gui_scenarios.html:1218:<p>Get the full <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/loading_screen.adoc" class="page unresolved">Loading Screen</a> tutorial here.</p>
core/gui/nifty_gui_scenarios.html:1226:<p>Get the full <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/nifty_gui_popup_menu.adoc" class="page unresolved">Nifty GUI PopUp Menu</a> tutorial here.</p>
core/scene/control/custom_controls.html:986:<p>To control global game behaviour see <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/application_states.adoc" class="page unresolved">Application States</a> – you often use AppStates and Control together.</p>
core/scene/control/custom_controls.html:1041:<p>Use <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Controls</a> to implement the <em>behaviour of types of game entities</em>.</p>
core/scene/control/custom_controls.html:1240:<p>To learn more about <code>write()</code> and <code>read()</code>, see <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/save_and_load.adoc" class="page unresolved">Save and Load</a></p>
core/scene/control/custom_controls.html:1243:<p>To learn more about <code>setUserData()</code>, see <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a>.</p>
core/scene/control/custom_controls.html:1274:<p>Implement this method to be able to <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/save_and_load.adoc" class="page unresolved">save() and load()</a> Spatials carrying this Control.</p>
core/scene/control/level_of_detail.html:986:<p>One solution for this problem is to use high-detail meshes for objects close to the camera, and low-detail meshes for objects far from the camera. As the player moves through the scene, you must keep replacing close objects by more detailed meshes, and far objects by less detailed meshes. The goal is to keep few high-quality slow-rendering objects in the foreground, and many low-quality fast-rendering objects in the background. (Experienced users can compare this approach to <a href="#jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">JME&#8217;s TerraMonkey terrain system</a>, which internally uses the specialized GeoMipMapping algorithm to generate a terrain&#8217;s Levels of Detail.)</p>
core/scene/control/level_of_detail.html:1290:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">JME3 TerraMonkey Terrain</a></p>
core/scene/traverse_scenegraph.html:1073:<p><a href="#../../jme3/the_scene_graph.adoc" class="page unresolved">The Scene Graph</a></p>
core/scene/traverse_scenegraph.html:1076:<p><a href="#../../jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a></p>
core/scene/mesh.html:1021:<p>You have several options when <a href="#jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">creating Geometries from meshes</a>:</p>
core/scene/mesh.html:1026:<p>Use built-in <a href="#jme3/advanced/shape.adoc" class="page unresolved">Shape</a>s as meshes;</p>
core/scene/mesh.html:1029:<p>Load <a href="#jme3/advanced/3d_models.adoc" class="page unresolved">3D models</a> (that is, meshes created in external applications); or</p>
core/scene/mesh.html:1032:<p>Create free-form <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_meshes.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom meshes</a> programmatically.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1102:<p>The polygon <a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mesh</a> inside a Geometry can be one of three things:</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1107:<p><strong>Shapes:</strong> The simplest type of Meshes are jME&#8217;s default <a href="#jme3/advanced/shape.adoc" class="page unresolved">Shape</a>s such as cubes and spheres. You can use several Shapes to build complex Geometries. Shapes are built-in and can be created without using the AssetManager.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1110:<p><strong>3D Models:</strong> <a href="#jme3/advanced/3d_models.adoc" class="page unresolved">3D models and scenes</a> are also made up of meshes, but are more complex than Shapes. You create Models and Scenes in external 3D Mesh Editors and export them as Ogre XML or Wavefront OBJ. Use the <a href="../asset/asset_manager.html" class="page">Asset Manager</a> to load models into a your jME3 game.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1113:<p><strong>Custom Meshes:</strong> Advanced users can create <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_meshes.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Meshes</a> programmatically.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1124:<p>Cloned spatials share the same mesh, while each cloned spatial can have its own local transformation (translation, rotation, and scale) in the scene. This means you only use <code>clone()</code> on spatials whose meshes never change. The most common use case for cloning is when you use several Spatials that are based on the same <a href="#jme3/advanced/shape.adoc" class="page unresolved">Shape</a>s (e.g. trees, crates).</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1132:<p>If the model is not animated (it has no <code><a href="#jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">AnimControl</a></code>), jME loads a clone. All clones share one mesh object in order to use less memory.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1135:<p>If the model is animated (it has a <code><a href="#jme3/advanced/animation.adoc" class="page unresolved">AnimControl</a></code>), then <code>loadModel()</code> duplicates the mesh for each loaded instance. (Uses more memory, but can animate.)</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1172:<p>You want to add custom accessor methods to a spatial? Do not extend <code>Node</code> or <code>Geometry</code>, use <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a> instead. You want to add custom fields to a spatial? Do not extend <code>Node</code> or <code>Geometry</code>, use the built-in <code>setUserData()</code> method instead. Where ever the Spatial is accessible, you can easily access the object&#8217;s class fields (user data) and accessors (control methods) this way.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1187:<p>The second example adds a set of custom accessor methods to the player object. You create a <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom PlayerControl() class</a> and you add this control to the Spatial:</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1223:<p>The saved data can even be a custom Java object if you make the custom Java class <a href="#jme3/advanced/save_and_load.adoc#custom-savable-class" class="page unresolved">implement the Savable interface</a>!</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1281:<p>Usage: The &#8220;inside&#8221; of a mesh (the so called backface) is typically never visible to the player, and as an optimization, the <code>Back</code> mode skips calculating all backfaces by default. Activating the <code>Off</code> or <code>Front</code> modes can be useful when you are debugging <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_meshes.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom meshes</a> and try to identify accidental inside-out faces.</p>
core/scene/spatial.html:1351:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/traverse_scenegraph.adoc" class="page unresolved">Traverse SceneGraph</a> – Find any Node or Geometry in the scenegraph.</p>
core/scene/3d_models.html:984:<p>Like <a href="#jme3/advanced/shape.adoc" class="page unresolved">Shape</a>s, 3D models are also made up of <a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mesh</a>es, but models are more complex than Shapes. While Shapes are built into jME3, you typically create models in external 3D Mesh Editors.</p>
core/scene/3d_models.html:997:<p>Export the 3D model using a <a href="#jme3/features.adoc#supported-external-file-types.adoc" class="page unresolved">Supported External File Type</a>.</p>
core/scene/3d_models.html:1021:<p>(For the release build:) Use one of methods recommended for your 3D model <a href="#jme3/features.adoc#supported-external-file-types.adoc" class="page unresolved">Supported External File Type</a> to convert the model to .j3o format. You don&#8217;t need this step until you deploy your application if you are making frequent changes to your models, however, you should get into the habit of always converting your models.</p>
core/scene/3d_models.html:1055:<p><a href="#jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">Creating assets in Blender3D</a></p>
core/scene/custom_meshes.html:1019:<p>Polygon <a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">mesh</a>es are made up of triangles. The corners of the triangles are called vertices. When ever you create any new shape, you break it down into triangles.</p>
core/scene/custom_meshes.html:1155:<p>If you get the order wrong (clockwise) for some of the triangles, then these triangles face backwards. If the <a href="#jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a>'s material uses the default <code>FaceCullMode.Back</code> (see “face culling), the broken triangles appear as holes in the rendered mesh. You need to identify and fix them in your code.</p>
core/scene/custom_meshes.html:1288:<p>There are more vertex buffers in a Mesh than the three shown above. For an overview, see also <a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">mesh</a>.</p>
core/scene/custom_meshes.html:1472:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/spatial.adoc" class="page unresolved">Spatial</a> – contains more info about how to debug custom meshes (that do not render as expected) by changing the default culling behaviour.</p>
core/scene/custom_meshes.html:1475:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/mesh.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mesh</a> – more details about advanced Mesh properties</p>
core/audio/audio.html:1587:<p>Or activate <a href="#jme3/advanced/audio_environment_presets.adoc" class="page unresolved">custom environment settings</a> in the Environment constructor:</p>
core/audio/audio.html:1618:<p>A sound engineer can create a custom <code>com.​jme3.​audio.Environment</code> object and specify custom environment values such as density, diffusion, gain, decay, delay… You can find many <a href="#jme3/advanced/audio_environment_presets.adoc" class="page unresolved">examples of custom audio environment presets</a> here.</p>
core/audio/audio_environment_presets.html:983:<p>Use these presets together with <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">Audio</a> Nodes to create different &#8220;moods&#8221; for sounds. Environment effects make your audio sound as if the listener were in various places that have different types of echoes.</p>
core/collision/collision_and_intersection.html:983:<p>The term collision can be used to refer to <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics_listeners.adoc" class="page unresolved">physical interactions</a> (where <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">physical objects</a> collide, push and bump off one another), and also to non-physical <em>intersections</em> in 3D space. This article is about the non-physical (mathematical) collisions.</p>
core/collision/collision_and_intersection.html:986:<p>Non-physical collision detection is interesting because it uses less computing resources than physical collision detection. The non-physical calculations are faster because they do not have any side effects such as pushing other objects or bumping off of them. Tasks such as <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/mouse_picking.adoc" class="page unresolved">mouse picking</a> are easily implemented using mathematical techniques such as ray casting and intersections.  Experienced developers optimize their games by finding ways to simulate certain (otherwise expensive physical) interactions in a non-physical way.</p>
core/collision/collision_and_intersection.html:1218:<p>Note: If you are looking for bounding volumes for physical objects, use <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/physics.adoc" class="page unresolved">CollisionShapes</a>.</p>
core/collision/collision_and_intersection.html:1280:<p>Learn the details of how to implement <a href="#../../jme3/advanced/mouse_picking.adoc" class="page unresolved">Mouse Picking</a> here.</p>
core/collision/terrain_collision.html:1311:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/terrain.adoc" class="page unresolved">Terrain</a></p>
core/effect/particle_emitters.html:1480:<p>See also: <a href="#jme3/advanced/effects_overview.adoc" class="page unresolved">Effects Overview</a></p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1071:<p>The jMonkeyEngine <a href="#jme3/advanced/water.adoc" class="page unresolved">&#8220;SeaMonkey WaterFilter&#8221;</a> simulates ocean waves, foam, including cool underwater caustics.<br>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1140:<p>Contribution: <a href="#jme3/contributions/vegetationsystem/grass.adoc" class="page unresolved">Grass System</a></p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1165:<p>More details: <a href="#jme3/advanced/bloom_and_glow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Bloom and Glow</a> – BloomFilter.</p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1184:<p>More details: <a href="#jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Light and Shadow</a></p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1204:<p>More details: <a href="#jme3/advanced/light_and_shadow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Light and Shadow</a></p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1235:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/fade.adoc" class="page unresolved">Fade</a> – FadeFilter</p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1305:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particle emitter effects</a> are highly configurable and can have any texture. They can simulate smoke, dust, leaves, meteors, snowflakes, mosquitos, fire, explosions, clusters, embers, sparks…</p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1362:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/particle_emitters.adoc" class="page unresolved">Particle Emitters</a></p>
core/effect/effects_overview.html:1365:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/bloom_and_glow.adoc" class="page unresolved">Bloom and Glow</a></p>
core/effect/post-processor_water.html:999:<p>The SeaMonkey WaterFilter is ideal for oceans and lakes, and especially for under-water scenes. If you only need a small simple water surface, such as a water trough or a shallow fountain, the <a href="#jme3/advanced/water.adoc" class="page unresolved">SimpleWaterProcessor</a> may already be all you need.</p>
core/effect/post-processor_water.html:1537:<p>See also: <a href="#jme3/advanced/audio.adoc" class="page unresolved">audio</a>.</p>
core/effect/post-processor_water.html:1549:<p><a href="#jme3/advanced/water.adoc" class="page unresolved">Simple water</a></p>
core/effect/water.html:983:<p>jMonkeyEngine offers a SimpleWaterProcessor that turns any quad (flat rectangle) into a reflective water surface with waves. You can use this quad for simple limited water surfaces such as water troughs, shallow fountains, puddles, shallow water in channels. The SimpleWaterProcessor has less performance impact on your game than the full featured <a href="#jme3/advanced/post-processor_water.adoc" class="page unresolved">SeaMonkey WaterFilter</a>; the main difference is that the SimpleWaterProcessor does not include under-water effects.</p>
core/effect/water.html:1081:<p>Load your <a href="#jme3/advanced/sky.adoc" class="page unresolved">sky</a> Geometry</p>
core/export/save_and_load.html:1102:<p>The Spatial is carrying any <a href="#jme3/advanced/custom_controls.adoc" class="page unresolved">Custom Controls</a>.<br>
sdk/material_editing.html:985:<p>If you are looking for background information, read about <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/material_definitions.adoc" class="page unresolved">Material Definitions</a> and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/j3m_material_files.adoc" class="page unresolved">j3M Material Files</a>.
sdk/android.html:1316:<p><strong>Best Practice:</strong> Ideally, you write the core application code in a way that it checks for the environment it&#8217;s being run on, and automatically adapts the device&#8217;s limitations by switching off effects, changing input mechanisms etc. Learn how to <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/read_graphic_card_capabilites.adoc" class="page unresolved">read graphic card capabilites</a> here.</p>
sdk/model_loader_and_viewer.html:1029:<p>Also check out <a href="#ROOT:jme3/external/blender.adoc" class="page unresolved">how to create compatible models in blender</a> and <a href="../tutorials/concepts/multi-media_asset_pipeline.html" class="page">how to organize your assets</a>.</p>
sdk/log_files.html:1001:<p>The message log contains all paths and <a href="#ROOT:jme3/advanced/read_graphic_card_capabilites.adoc" class="page unresolved">capabilities</a> used in your development system, and also warnings, e.g. if a plugin crashed.</p>
